# The Unexpected Turn

First Year, first sem, the very start of this journey. It was a beginning that is beyond my expectations. Every feeling feels like its peek and too deep. Clearly wasn't a normal start.

Would you believe that I didn't start in Computer Science? Well, I was initially an Architecture student here at New Era University. It almost broke my fingers! (No I'm just kidding). It was fun and challenging, not as smooth as butter, but I did manage to do well in class. Not to bee too shaby but, I even improved my handwriting skills. The experience was continuous until the day the Department of Science and Technology (DOST SEI) announced its scholarship awardees. It was a mixture of shock, surprise, and overjoy as we saw my name on the list. However, it did came with a cost, a cost that truly started my journey here in Computer Science.

You might be tired of reading start but this is really it, i prommise. My Computer Science degree journey begun unintentionally. During our awardee's orientation, we found out that in order to be a scholar, an awardee must be studying in a program with at least level 3 acreditation from CHED. This rule made me shift from Architecture into a program that meets the criteria, which is Computer Science. Those times were hard as I convinced myself of letting go all my previous work and initial goals, every effort I made will be left. Shifting and adapting to the CS Progam was a big challenge as well. Keeping up with the activities was a clutch since I was only able to shift almost 1 week prior to the midterm exam. One of my subjects also had iregularities (particularly Fundamentals of Programming) as my Laboratory and Lecture schedules were separated into different sections. It might have some downsides but I really appreciate that I made a few friends from EMC. Time and effort passed and thankfully, I did managed to keep up with the activities before the official start of the final term.

Although the change was difficult, it opened my vision in many possibilities. This experience taught me that everything might not be as I planned and contradict my expectations. An initial lesson that trained me how to adapt and cope with the present situation. Most of all, it encouraged me to enjoy and focus on the good side of things even in this unexpected turn.
