# Time to go Outside!

> 2nd Year 2nd Semester Reflection

Ever since first year, or perhaps my grade 12 experience, the COVID19 pandemic has already took event. It’s been almost 3 years not meeting people personally. It’s been online classes and engagement is quite limited. So, by the time hybrid classes were announced, it was a mix of expectation, emotion, thoughts, and excitement.

Although the hybrid modality was announced in December from the previous year, most of our program’s courses are still sticking to online classes. However, since I was able to join a choral group, I needed to participate in face-to-face rehearsals. So, by January, I started moving into the dorms. This was the first time I lived without my parents, although I was thankful enough that I have my brother live alongside me. The change in environment and atmosphere was so new to me especially for someone who lived with their parents ever since childhood. Still, thanks to my older brother, it wasn’t that hard for me to adapt as he showed me how to live here.

I that I got used to the new environment, time for the most interesting or challenging part of this story, “How do I talk to people?” Since most of our classes are still online, the first people I met personally in campus are my Choirmates. I had a very low self-esteem, dropped my confidence level, and was so shy back then that I can’t stand conversations so long. Especially when comparing my self-image to theirs, it makes me feel more ashamed as I didn’t imagine that most of the people here in manila looks good and rich making me feel ashamed of myself for being and looking so poor. Coming from a lone-wolf student, I thought my social dynamics got better only to realize that I don’t fit in the group.

Thankfully, it’s not all that bad and everything is just wired in my overthinking. I eventually got friends from the group and felt that I belong thanks to our seniors. They realized that I was so shy, doesn’t want to talk anyone, yet they still initiated conversations with me and actually had me in their friend group. Maybe it was just a how I think, or overthink perhaps, that I think everything too much before diving into action. Or maybe the pandemic was a factor as well, being inside for a long time made in person communication feel unusual. Still, I’m glad I was able to fit in eventually thanks to the people I had.

I guess this is all in this chapter, studies remained constant although computer keeps crashing more frequent than last time. I thought I’ll get used to the stress my laptop gives me but, welp, buying a new laptop isn’t that easy so I got no choice but to endure.
