# Shatter

I thought I can handle it, I’ve passed half-way through, created false hope only to endure a spikier trail. I hoped that I can change things, make thing right for me once again, didn’t imagine that I’ll be in a way worse situation in this timeline, never thought it could be worse.

Continuing the story, with all that I have left, the only learning device I had was my phone, laptop is being repaired, got left out or behind in study, and even struggled financially as I tried buying a new laptop. It was a big struggle only having a phone in my arsenal, like if you imagine, it feels like going in machine-gun combat by only using a knife. It was brutal and I felt so ashamed considering that I’m once a person people look up to only to become a dead-weight, a burden in group activities.

What’s worse is that eventually, my phone also broke, went into a boot-loop state during one of our exams. Well, what could you expect? It’s been used for google meet, having its camera on, while providing internet through hotspot, while being charged due to fast battery depletion. I even got kicked out of the meeting as the camera fluctuates adding stress while answering an exam. And as it eventually broke, I had a hard time in communication, checking activities and deadlines. I suffered financially as haven’t received DOST scholarship allowance and was forced to buy a new phone while paying for a new laptop that I haven’t even received yet.

Here's more. I didn’t only struggle for not having proper equipment, but this is also the time I realized how poor most of my courses. This where I changed my view in the most inspirational teacher, I thought I knew. Imagine trying to explain a mistake to those professors with most humbleness and best intentions only to for it to be ignored and be humiliated. “Baka di ka nakikinig kaya hind imo alam!” Imagine hearing that from the one I look up to and completely knowing that I study hard, even struggle to study every concept, do extra practice with limited resources because the topic wasn’t even taught clearly in the first place. Not only that, when I eventually received my new laptop and used it to present our work, I only got humiliated because of my “sisiw” laptop as they said. They don’t even know how much this cost, all its specs, and what lengths I did, all my struggle to purchase this latest model. I guess all of this struggles in study are meaningless now. This broke me, made me hate this college, made me realize everything that makes this place disgusting.

Would you look at that, it doesn’t end here yet. What about your social support? Due to my incapabililties in doing some of my academic activities, I gotten myself spend more time in the choir. This is where I ease most of my stress through singing and learning piano. I even got to portray a big role as the shadow vice president. However, due to my declining grades, my parents keep, what I used to know as my primary source of support, kept asking me to stop all these like it means nothing to me. I guess, that’s for my parents, what about my friends? There’s this one time we had a choir performance and we, along with my one of my “[closest](cut-content.md)” friend, needed to take the exam on advance. Considering all my struggles in study, I haven’t even got a passing grade in the exam, she did though. However, what’s annoying is that she started leaking the exam contents to our other friends. From an honor student’s perspective, imagine having big challenges in studies while still doing your exam ‘clean’ and receiving a poor grade while watching almost all your classmates ace the exam. I already knew they were doing this before and I chose to ignore it. But after this seemed like a betrayal, like cheating comes from one of your friends, it was enough reason for me to become totally distant.

With these challenges, I eventually lost hope, lost my streak as being a “lister” as well, didn’t cared about grades anymore, lost all motivation.

Now, all of this… delusions, guilt, walking with heavy weight, alone, no more weapons, no more friends, no inspiration, no one to look up to, exhausted body, broken mind, hollow heart, shattered dreams, everything…

seems to fall apart…
