# When the Star… starts to Fall

As I continue to walk, creating this chapter of the journey with my actions, struggles are meant to be faced. Had bigger responsibilities, bigger challenges, and goodbyes from people I cherish. It feels like walking in the middle of the road figuring out what to choose from a lot of possibilities, depicting what’s best among all the worse decisions on my own.

Since the last school year has passed, many of the people I know are meant to say goodbye. The seniors in my choir who made me feel belong to the group, my brother who showed me the ropes, they all graduated already. I had a bigger role in the choir, and became our new room monitor in the dorm we’re living as well, replacing the ones that finished their journey. I didn’t expect all these responsibilities be given to me and it took time and effort for me to adapt considering my academic status at this point.

Keeping with activities became insanely difficult. My laptop crashes even just by opening it and it makes no sense to the point that it traumatizes me. It feels like going deeper in the war while fighting with a broken sword. I told myself, believed in myself, that I can managed to keep up, until, my resources got cut. My crashing laptop eventually went into a boot-loop state and broke its own OS due to frequent crashes. Because of this, what’s insanely difficult seemed impossible for me. Adding to the injury, I also got involved in an OJT that I wasn’t even supposed to do. Schedules became overwhelming, tasks and activities got nerfed due to lack of time and effective equipment, life became chaos.

But wait, what about my friends? Yes, I was glad I made those friends before, friends that always help me, and carry me when I fall on the run. However, maybe this is where I was wrong as well, besides being thankful to them, I couldn’t remove the feeling of being useless on the group. I’ve just never been in this situation before where I’m the one who’s being carried. From a lone-wolf standpoint, I was the one to carry the team, the one to always excel and be ahead, the one who’s being looked up to. But now, it was shameful for me to be at the other side of the coin, being the one who’s dead weight. I got left behind eventually and resulted to a lower self-esteem, began hiding my self from people I know, believing that I’ll be less of a burden.

_[cut-content](cut-content.md)_

This was the point of the journey where things I had starts to be taken bit by bit. Well, what can I do? I’m in the middle of the war already, decisions have been made and there’s no going back. No choice but to accept what I still have rather than backing out. Now I’m just walking through this war, striving to survive each day, carrying the shame and despair, fighting struggles from within as my sanity slowly shatters.
